Tom Rothman at Sony gave this
proclamation, which I think this is
quite a tall order. He said, "I need six
shots in the trailer that nobody's ever
seen before." And I was like, "Wow,
there's I mean, nobody's ever seen
before." Okay. So, we had to try and
figure out what the six shots were in
the script that were these are the
trailer shots.
that was always written into the script
as an idea was to have the two different
times that he walks to the store uh and
and back and see the contrast between
the before and the after the zombie
apocalypse. Then it's like a whole
process of like we have to find the
location for Sean's house and we have to
have to find a a corner shop that's
within a walking distance and find one
that's an interesting walk and that we
could do on the steady cam. And then and
then on top of that, I remember when we
were doing the like sort of technical
scout with the crew, the the director of
photography on Shan of the Dead, David
Dunlap, said uh quite confidently, he
said, "This shot's going to be cut out
of the movie." And I was like, "Wait,
what do you mean?" and he said, "It's
shoe leather. These shots always get cut
out of the movie. We're going to spend a
long time doing this and it's not going
to make it in." And I was going, "No,
no, it's really important." So, I think
probably like spurred on by him saying
that that me and uh Simon and Marcus
Roland, the production designer, went
back to the location, just the three of
us, and we shot a video of Simon doing
it. And then basically whatever detail
we'd planned to have in that shot, we
like tripled it because I think well we
got to make this shot so interesting
they can't cut it out or it won't get
cut out of the movie. So I think sort of
like mean in a weird way like David
ended up throwing down the gauntlet to
make the shot more interesting. Uh so
and the idea is all the details that you
see in the before times kind of are
mirrored in the after times. Now two
things that are then interesting about
the shot. Number one is that we shot it
on the first day of the shoot. It's
literally the first setup that we ever
did. And the other thing is that we shot
the zombie apocalypse version first. So,
we shot the after bit and then we shot
the before because it was easier for
costume and makeup and the art
department to re to clear up the set
than to kind of like trash the set and
easier to take people's makeup off than
the other way around. So, we shot the
after before and the before after.
>> The victims knew each other.
>> Uh, everyone knows everyone around here.
>> Yeah. If you didn't see anything
suspicious, then who did?
>> I I feel like I'm going to sort of like
um do myself a disservice here because
I'd be lying if I said that that thing
was planned.
Patty Considine on just one take and one
take only decided to come back into the
frame. So it was always supposed to be
like that that they it was always
supposed to be like that that they say
their last line and they kind of move
off together. And the idea that like Ray
Spaul's character is is obviously in awe
of his kind of superior like Andy.
They're like partners but it's
definitely like a sort of senior and a
junior. So there's a thing where they're
sort of copying each other and they sort
of mirror like Simon and Nick. So
there's that, you know, they do the line
and then they move off. But one take and
one take only, Patty Constein decided to
come back into the frame. And if you
look, we only used as many frames as we
could
before cutting. And the reason we didn't
use any more of that shot was because Ra
cracks up. And if you look closely, he's
cracking up in the shot. So that shot
only exists for that long. And I think
originally we didn't have it in the cut
because everybody laughed and it was
kind of like it was almost like it was a
blooper and then me and Chris Dickens
kind of thought like oh it's maybe
there's a way of getting that in. So we
literally had to kind of find a shot of
Simon and Nick afterwards. I think they
turned back to sort of the explosion
site. But if you look really closely in
the shot you can see Rafe sports dying
to crack up. So, I want to I want to
thank um Patty Conine for that little
bit of improvisational genius. There was
only one take of that bit.
>> Well, you know, I mean, you have to give
credit to Brian Leo Mali who obviously
wrote the book but also drew the artwork
and some of the frames are so beautiful
you just want to replicate them on
screen. So, I have to give credit to
Brian for the composition for that shot.
What was also kind of really wild about
Scott Pilgrim is that Brian Lee and Mali
obviously lived in uh Toronto at the
time, Toronto rather. Got to drop the
second T. He still had the photographic
reference that he took of locations
and which he then drew in the book. He
still had those digital photos. So we
were able on Scott Pilgrim to go to the
actual houses and the parks and the
street corners that he had used as
reference. So it was a really unusual
thing to actually be in the place and
sometimes be at houses like Scott
Pilgrim's house is like a garage door
that the owners of the building had no
idea that they were in the comic. That
park with the swing set I want to say is
Hillhurst Park cuz I think that's the
name of the queue. It's like a sort of
like a crane shot. And also I think even
though it was still cold I think we had
like fake snow and then double negative
the effect extended the snow. So there's
a there's a portion of real snow and
then there's a like it's all extended
out to the edges. The other thing I
remember about that uh scene with the
swing set is that um we're shooting at
night and as it comes closer to um dawn
you have what's called the dawn chorus
where the birds start chirping and the
birds start chirping really really loud.
So to scare off the birds they had like
a fake owl on set. So, the thing I
really remember about that is having a
monitor and like a massive owl to scare
away the birds because the noise of the
dawn chorus was so loud that it will
wipe out the dialogue. So, when I think
about that shot, I think about Brian's
artwork. I think about the fake snow and
I think about the massive owl.
that was really emotional to shoot and
you know it always was always building
up into the script that like Gary and
Andy were actually going to like get
physical with each other. And also
something I think that I think for some
viewers of the film kind of upsetting to
watch Simon and actually having a fight
and not just having a fight but also the
the the dramatic part of it is that Andy
is trying to stop Gary drinking. It's
not just a physical fight. It's actually
sort of just a a kind of like physical
manifestation of trying to kind of like
stop a friend who's out of control. So,
it is like a really it's like a sort of
it it's not like a funny fight like some
of the other like scenes in that film
are. It is something that's quite
dramatic and you know emotional to kind
of uh shoot those scenes and
and maintain that kind of energy as
well. You know, they don't care. I got
help.
You know what help was?
Help was a lot of people sitting in a
circle talking about how [__] awful
things had got. That is not my idea of a
good time. And this is they told me when
to go to bed.
>> Both of them I think are incredible in
that film. And like you know, Simon, I
think sort of really proud of him. I
think since the movie came out, when we
actually did the press tour for that
film, he hadn't talked about his own
um alcoholism. um you know he came out
with it later and uh I was really proud
of him for sort of you know being as
open as he has been about it. It was a
really you know in that respect it was
actually like repressed Brits that don't
talk about our feelings is like let's
not talk about this elephant in the
room. Let's just write a film about it
instead. So I think for me and Simon it
was kind of the the the film was
therapeutic to write.
I have to give credit to like [music]
Darren Prescott and Jeremy Fry and Bill
Pope for this because it was something
we were trying to come up with something
that was really an impressive bit of
driving for Baby and Darren and Jeremy
had come up with this idea of something
that Jeremy Fry who was our stunt driver
could do and do it in the alley. They
had shot like the stunt from a couple of
angles and it looked really impressive.
One was like a wire cam and another one
was a sort of like a camera shot that
was going alongside it. And the thing
was is that it was a really great stunt
and then a really amazing bit of driving
by Jeremy. But um when we were watching
it, there was something that was missing
and it was Bill Pope who said something
has to motivate him to do the um the
first maneuver. And so actually if you
look at that shot, there's a reversing
truck which is digital.
I remember when we were trying to get
the movie green lit, Tom Rothman at Sony
gave this proclamation, which I think
this is quite a tall order. He said, "I
need six shots in the trailer that
nobody's ever seen before." And I was
like, "Wow, that is I mean, nobody's
ever seen before." Okay, so we had to
try and figure out what the six shots
were in the script that were these are
the trailer shots, and that move was one
of them. And I I have to give full
credit to Darren Prescott and Jeremy
Fry. That shot was in every single
trailer [laughter] of the movie.
It was written into the script and it
was storyboarded to just have one
change. And it was all building up to
this idea that um like you're following
Anna's character Sandy at that point and
then in a sort of euphoric sort of peak
it becomes kind of Eloise again played
by Thomas and McKenzie. And it was
supposed to happen once and then a and
then there was a couple of things that
happened here. And uh one was that Jen
White, our amazing choreographer, we
were coming up with some transitions and
she had like come up with some ideas of
like, you know, switches and when you go
into like a uh rehearsal room, I had
this video camera and she's showing me,
oh, you know, this is an idea and you
would shoot it from this angle. And as
we were doing it, you we ended up sort
of she'd sort of done six in a row and
say to take your pick, here's some
ideas. But as you're shooting on a
camera, you start to think, well, maybe
we should do all six. So, actually went
from being one transition to being just
all of them. The first one is a digital
effect and then the rest of them are all
in camera. Now, the other thing that
happened when we doing the rehearsal,
one of the switches from Blonde brunette
was so slick that I remember showing it
to my girlfriend and she was like,
"Wait, what? What just happened? Rewound
it again. Show it to me again.
Rewindound it again." And then when I
was coming up to shooting it and we done
some makeup tests and we done a
rehearsal and Thomasson was in the
blonde wig, I suddenly thought, "This is
a mistake." And I remembered the
reaction that Blonde to brunette got in
the rehearsal. So I had to we'd spent so
much time getting Thomas in in this
other dress and hair and makeup and I
thought no she should be in her she
should be in what she's sleeping in in
her pajamas and her brown hair otherwise
it's not going to work. It's going to be
so slick that you won't even see that it
goes from blonde to blonde. So I had to
kind of call like um our costume and
makeup and saying hey guys don't freak
out but Thomasson's going to stay
brunette in this scene. And it's kind of
I think what has made the sequence.
I'll talk about [music] one because it's
like another like one that was really
fun to sort of design. There are like
these cameras that are in the film
called the rover cams. You know, the
idea is that when uh they're like the
kind of the vultures of the movie in the
sense of they're shooting your imminent
death. So when one of these cameras
turns up, it means that something bad is
about to happen. And in the sequence
that we call the YVA sequence where
Glenn is in a halfway house and is kind
of trying to escape the hunters, his
camera is like outside a window right on
top of him and then chases him down the
hall through the window down the hall
and then Glenn goes into an elevator and
then the camera goes in and then he
grabs the camera and basically that is
mostly like one shot. And also we had to
build a set that went outside the window
and you know have half of a broken
window and the rest of it was like CG
because the camera goes right through
past Michael Belell on the left chases
Glenn down the corridor and then before
it starts chasing him fully and there's
um Joey Aner who plays one of the
hunters like has to skid in between like
the the camera and Glenn going at full
pelt and start firing and then squibs
are going off and one of them hits a
fire extinguisher and and Glenn has to
slide down into the elevator. There's a
lot going on in that shot in one shot.
Well, number one is that sort of Joey
had to get in between the camera and
Glenn. The camera operator is carrying
this kind of gimbal. It's not a steady
cam because he has to run. And then also
squibs are going off for real in camera.
And then also they had to slick the
floor by the elevator so that when Glenn
got up to pace he could like do a slide
and go right down into it. And then
there is a little stitch when you go
into the elevator because obviously the
elevator set is is real. But then when
Glenn did it, they're obviously like
crash mats there cuz he's going at full
pelt. So it was a wild thing to do all
in one shot. Um so I'm very proud of
that one.
>> Well, I I actually have [music] like a
favorite shot of all time. Uh it's in
the good, the bad, and the ugly. And
it's a shot that whenever I I mean I
love that movie anyway. And this is like
a film with so many amazing shots, but
there's one shot in the kind of the
climax where Eli Wallock is running
around the cemetery. And uh basically
like at the end of the film, you know,
all three of our main characters, the
good, the bad, and the ugly, converge on
this cemetery where they they know some
treasure is buried uh under uh one of
these uh one of these kind of like
gravestones, and they have to find I
think it name's Arch Stanton is the name
of the the the grave. But, you know,
when you find the cemetery, there's like
thousands of like gravestones, you know,
crosses. And so Eli Wallik is trying to
find the grave that's marked. I think
it's Arch Danter is the name of the guy.
So it's just like and and Annie
Moricone's uh cue the ecstasy of gold is
soaring and you see Eli Wallock running
around the cemetery trying to find the
correct grave. And there's one shot
where the camera is just panning with
him and is seemingly just kind of in a
complete circle and it's on a long lens
and Eli Wallik is so crisp. And every
time I watch that, I thinking, I cannot
imagine like the operation going into
that. How do they keep him in focus and
so sharp? It's such an incredible shot.
And and because it's gravestones, it's
kind of like it's blurring. It's kind of
like goes back to the original zoatrope
imagery of like, you know,
>> persistence of motion type stuff.
>> Yeah, it's just one of those like shots
that just makes me um believe in the
power of cinema. It's so I love that
whole sequence, but that particular shot
of Eli Wallock running around and the
camera following is just like pure magic
to me.